Transformations changes (#27690)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels/transformations/types-options.md

+++

> title = "Transformation Types and Options"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title = "Transformation types and options"
```

Author: Done

- **Calculation -** Select a calculation to use when Grafana creates the new field. Click in the field to see a list of calculation choices. For information about available calculations, refer to the [Calculation list]({{< relref "../calculations-list.md" >}}).
- **Alias -** (Optional) Enter the name of your new field. If you leave this blank, then the field will be named to match the calculation.
- **Replace all fields -** (Optional) Select this option if you want to hide all other fields and display only your calculated field in the visualization.

In the example below, I added two fields together and named them Sum.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/transformations/add-field-from-calc-stat-example-7-0.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width= "1100px" >}}

## Labels to fields

> **Note:** In order to apply this transformation, your query needs to returns labeled fields.

When you select this transformation, Grafana automatically transforms all labeled data into fields.

Example: Given a query result of two time series

1: labels Server=Server A, Datacenter=EU
2: labels Server=Server B, Datacenter=EU

> This would result in a table like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would result in a table like this:
```

Author: Fixed.

| Time                | Server   | Datacenter | Value |
| ------------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----- |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | Server A | EU         | 1     |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | Server B | EU         | 2     |

**Value field name**

> If you selected Server as in the **Value field name**, then you would get one field for every value of the Server label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you selected Server as the **Value field name**, then you would get one field for every value of the Server label.
```

Author: Fixed.

+++
title = "Transformation Types and Options"
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
identifier = "transformation_types_and_options"
parent = "transformations"
weight = 300
+++

# Transformation types and options

Grafana comes with the following transformations:
  

>   - [Reduce](#reduce)

Reviewer: Reorder this list to match the UI order.

  - [Merge](#merge)
  - [Filter by name](#filter-by-name)
  - [Filter data by query](#filter-data-by-query)
  - [Organize fields](#organize-fields)
  - [Join by field (outer join)](#join-by-field-outer-join)
  - [Add field from calculation](#add-field-from-calculation)
  - [Labels to fields](#labels-to-fields)

>   - [Group By](#group-by)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Group by](#group-by)
```

Reviewer: The UI says "Group by." Reconcile throughout and in the What's new in 7.2 topic.

Author: Done

  - [Series to rows](#series-to-rows)

Keep reading for detailed descriptions of each type of transformation and the options available for each, as well as suggestions on how to use them.

## Reduce

> Apply a _Reduce_ transformation when you want to simplify your results down to one value. Reduce basically removes time component. If visualized as a table, it reduces a column down to one row (value).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply a _Reduce_ transformation when you want to simplify your results down to one value. Reduce removes the time component. If visualized as a table, it reduces a column down to one row (value).
```

In the **Calculations** field, enter one or more calculation types. Click to see a list of calculation choices. For information about available calculations, refer to the [Calculation list]({{< relref "../calculations-list.md" >}}).

Once you select at least one calculation, Grafana reduces the results down to one value using the calculation you select. If you select more than one calculation, then more than one value is displayed.

Here's an example of a table with time series data. Before I apply the transformation, you can see all the data organized by time.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/transformations/reduce-before-7-0.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width= "1100px" >}}

After I apply the transformation, there is no time value and each column has been reduced to one row showing the results of the calculations that I chose.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/transformations/reduce-after-7-0.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width= "1100px" >}}

## Merge

> > **Note:** This transformation is only available in Grafana 7.1+.

Reviewer: At some point, let's come up with a rule for how long these version notes stick around. Right now, there isn't one.

> Use this transformation to combine the result from multiple queries into one single result. This is helpful when using the table panel visualization. Values that can be merged are combined into the same row. Values are mergeable if the shared fields contains the same data.

Reviewer: Link [table panel] to the Table panel topic.

Author: Added Table panel link.

In the example below, we have two queries returning table data. It is visualized as two separate tables before applying the transformation.

Query A:

| Time                | Job     | Uptime    |
| ------------------- | ------- | --------- |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | node    | 25260122  |
| 2020-07-07 11:24:20 | postgre | 123001233 |

Query B:

| Time                | Job     | Errors |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------ |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | node    | 15     |
| 2020-07-07 11:24:20 | postgre | 5      |

> Here is the result after applying the `Merge` transformation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the result after applying the Merge transformation.
```

Author: Fixed.

- **Alias -** (Optional) Enter the name of your new field. If you leave this blank, then the field will be named to match the calculation.
- **Replace all fields -** (Optional) Select this option if you want to hide all other fields and display only your calculated field in the visualization.

In the example below, I added two fields together and named them Sum.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/transformations/add-field-from-calc-stat-example-7-0.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width= "1100px" >}}

## Labels to fields

> **Note:** In order to apply this transformation, your query needs to returns labeled fields.

When you select this transformation, Grafana automatically transforms all labeled data into fields.

Example: Given a query result of two time series

1: labels Server=Server A, Datacenter=EU
2: labels Server=Server B, Datacenter=EU

This would result in a table like this

| Time                | Server   | Datacenter | Value |
| ------------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----- |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | Server A | EU         | 1     |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | Server B | EU         | 2     |

**Value field name**

> If you where to select `Server` as in the **Value field name** you would get one field for every value of the `Server`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you selected Server as in the **Value field name**, then you would get one field for every value of the Server label.
```

Author: Fixed.

> label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed.

| Time                | Datacenter | Server A | Server B |
| ------------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------- |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | EU         | 1        | 2        |

For this example, I manually defined labels in the Random Walk visualization of TestData DB.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/transformations/labels-to-fields-before-7-0.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width= "1100px" >}}

After I apply the transformation, my labels appear in the table as fields.

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/transformations/labels-to-fields-after-7-0.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" max-width= "1100px" >}}

> ## Group By

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Group by
```

Reviewer: For this transformation, you see a list of fields and can choose to Group by or Calculate one or more columns. I don't feel like we really explain that well. The examples are good, so we know what we can do, but we don't actually tell users about what they see in the UI or how to interact with it. Care to take a crack at it?

> **Note:** This transformation is only available in Grafana 7.2+.

> This transformation groups the data by a specified field (column) value and processes calculations on each group. The available calculations are the same as the Reduce transformation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transformation groups the data by a specified field (column) value and processes calculations on each group. Click to see a list of calculation choices. For information about available calculations, refer to the [Calculation list]({{< relref "../calculations-list.md" >}}).
```

Author: Updated.

Here's an example of original data.

| Time                | Server ID | CPU Temperature | Server Status |
| ------------------- | --------- | --------------- | ------------- |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | server 1  | 80              | Shutdown      |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | server 3  | 62              | OK            |
| 2020-07-07 10:32:20 | server 2  | 90              | Overload      |
| 2020-07-07 10:31:22 | server 3  | 55              | OK            |
| 2020-07-07 09:30:57 | server 3  | 62              | Rebooting     |
| 2020-07-07 09:30:05 | server 2  | 88              | OK            |
| 2020-07-07 09:28:06 | server 1  | 80              | OK            |
| 2020-07-07 09:25:05 | server 2  | 88              | OK            |
| 2020-07-07 09:23:07 | server 1  | 86              | OK            |

> This transformation goes in two steps. First you specify one or multiple fields to group the data by. This will group all the same values of those fields together, as if you sorted them. For instance if we `Group By` the `Server ID` field, it would group the data this way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transformation goes in two steps. First you specify one or multiple fields to group the data by. This will group all the same values of those fields together, as if you sorted them. For instance if we group by the Server ID field, then it would group the data this way:
```

Author: Fixed.

| Time                | Server ID    | CPU Temperature | Server Status |
| ------------------- | ------------ | --------------- | ------------- |
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | **server 1** | 80              | Shutdown      |
| 2020-07-07 09:28:06 | **server 1** | 80              | OK            |
| 2020-07-07 09:23:07 | **server 1** | 86              | OK            |

|
| 2020-07-07 10:32:20 | server 2 | 90 | Overload
| 2020-07-07 09:30:05 | server 2 | 88 | OK
| 2020-07-07 09:25:05 | server 2 | 88 | OK
|
| 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | **_server 3_** | 62 | OK
| 2020-07-07 10:31:22 | **_server 3_** | 55 | OK
| 2020-07-07 09:30:57 | **_server 3_** | 62 | Rebooting

> All rows with the same value of `Server ID` are grouped together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All rows with the same value of Server ID are grouped together.
```

> After choosing which field you want to group your data by, you can add various calculations on the other fields, and the calculation will be applied on each group of rows. For instance, we could want to calculate the average `CPU temperature` for each of those servers. So we can add the _mean_ calculation applied on the `CPU Temperature` field to get the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After choosing which field you want to group your data by, you can add various calculations on the other fields, and apply the calculation to each group of rows. For instance, we could want to calculate the average CPU temperature for each of those servers. So we can add the _mean_ calculation applied on the CPU Temperature field to get the following:
```

Author: Fixed.

| Server ID | CPU Temperature (mean) |
| --------- | ---------------------- |
| server 1  | 82                     |
| server 2  | 88.6                   |
| server 3  | 59.6                   |

> And we can add more than one of those calculation. For instance :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And we can add more than one calculation. For instance:
```

> - For field `Time`, we can calculate the _Last_ value, to know when the last data point was received for each server

Reviewer: Remove the code format from these fields.

- For field `Server Status`, we can calculate the _Last_ value to know what is the last state value for each server
- For field `Temperature`, we can also calculate the _Last_ value to know what is the latest monitored temperature for each server

We would then get :

| Server ID | CPU Temperature (mean) | CPU Temperature (last) | Time (last)         | Server Status (last) |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- |
| server 1  | 82                     | 80                     | 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | Shutdown             |
| server 2  | 88.6                   | 90                     | 2020-07-07 10:32:20 | Overload             |
| server 3  | 59.6                   | 62                     | 2020-07-07 11:34:20 | OK                   |

This transformation allows you to extract some key information out of your time series and display them in a convenient way.

## Series to rows

> **Note:** This transformation is only available in Grafana 7.1+.

Use this transformation to combine the result from multiple time series data queries into one single result. This is helpful when using the table panel visualization.

> The result from this transformation will contain three columns: `Time`, `Metric`, and `Value`. The `Metric` column is added so you easily can see from which query the metric originates from. Customize this value by defining `Label` on the source query.

Reviewer: Please remove the code format from this paragraph and later on.

Author: Done
